Bachelor Thesis (15 CP): A Study of Malware Detection Techniques for HPC Application Recognition
Start date: 18.10.2023
End date: 02.02.2024

# What I did

- Met with Thomas to review my presentation and the feedback received from the HPC group.
  - Added some bullet points to the progress report, mainly adding Machoke and the idea of using the "Strings" command as fuzzy hashing.
  - To show if my thesis of the formation of the malware dataset holds I will compare the distribution of the scores. If the distribution as a low standard deviation then it makes sense, else not.
  - Thomas is going to give me access to the mini HPC, since I still do not have access and therefore can not run Machoke on Scicore binaries.
- Continued working on Machoke and parallelize the workload for miniHPC
- Started working on implementing the custom "String" fuzzy hasher

# What I will do

- Run Machoke on miniHPC as soon as I get access.
- Finish the remaining fuzzy hashers


# Questions

- How do you recommend to write the thesis while I am still analysing my results? Would you recommend to do both simultaneously or first get done with analysing and then continue to write it?
- Are there any requirements for the written thesis like amount of pages/words/chars or something similar?
- Should I treat it as a much bigger PET report but with the same concept in mind?

# Progress Report

- [x] Create Github repo, roadmap and plan the work
- [x] Read related work on the fuzzy hashers and write down the knowledge
- [x] Play around with Machoke and TLSH to see how they behave and work
- [x] Plan the Testing Framework including the database schema
- [x] Webscrape the biggest categorized malware samples publicly available
- [x] Normalize the data and run test the Testing Framework on them
- [x] Download all the Scicore apps in /scicore/soft/apps
- [x] Use the testing framework on the retrieved data (Only Malware for now / Next week Scicore binaries too)
- [x] Find the compare score sweet spots for the fuzzy hashers based on the false positive rate
- [ ] Get to know statistical testing and learn their meaning to verify the results
- [x] Generate statistical tests for the results and compare them with a ROC curve
- [ ] Add the Machoke results and compare them with the other fuzzy hashers
- [ ] Add the String command results and compare them with the other fuzzy hashers
- [ ] Build a heuristic for the "Obstkorb" framework based on the results before
- [ ] Nice to have: Use fuzzy hashers as features for machine learning and build a model