Bachelor Thesis (15 CP): A Study of Malware Detection Techniques for HPC Application Recognition
Start date: 18.10.2023
End date: 02.02.2024

# What I did

- Created a script to get all the relevant Scicore binaries from /scicore/soft/apps by comparing the names of the folders and finding the longest matching substring of the folders and their respective binaries.
- Loaded the scicore binaries into the db with the testing framework.
- Made a jupyter notebook and ran some basic statistics on the scicore data.
  - Only looked at TLSH (Trend Micro Locality Sensitivity Hash) and ssdeep for this bi weekly sprint.
  - Using ssdeep on the scicore binaries is basically useless. True positive rate is lower than 10% for the scicore binaries without noise.
  - ssdeep measure from 0-100 where 0 is no match and 100 is identical. Empirically, I found that a score of 80 is a good threshold for the scicore binaries, based on the false positive rate.
  - TLSH is way better with a true positive rate of 81% for the scicore binaries without non classified binaries added as noise.
  - TLSH measure from 0 to more than 3000 where 0 is identical and higher increases the false positive rate. Empirically I found that a score of 60-120 is a good threshold for the scicore binaries, based on the false positive rate.
  - These results are first measures and will be refined in the future, to prove their statistical significance.
- Learned how to efficiently code with pandas.
  - Problem was that I was using for loops to iterate over the dataframes which is very slow. I therefore changed to calculating every possible combination for the comparison of the hashes and it cut the time by a factor of 10.
  - Another performance enhancer was the groupby function in pandas which turned a half hour calculation into a 2 minute calculation.
- Learned how to use the ROC curve and how to interpret it.
  - The ROC curve is a way to visualize the true positive rate and the false positive rate of a classifier.
  - The curve is not final yet as I have to adjust the dataset and add enough noise to be statistically significant, but there are first results.

# What I will do

- Test the Machoke and others fuzzy hashers and see their results.
  - The Machoke fuzzy hasher needs to be refactored to fit into the framework, as it is meant as a standalone application.
- Run some more tests on the scicore binaries to get a better understanding of the results.
- Start to test the fuzzy hashers with the malware database to cross validate the results. The low score of ssdeep is weird and needs to be investigated.
- Start writing fundamentals and related work.
# Questions

- Thomas has informed me, that I have to do a mid-presentation. Would the 18.12.2023 be a good date for that?

# Progress Report

- [x] Create Github repo, roadmap and plan the work
- [x] Read related work on the fuzzy hashers and write down the knowledge
- [x] Play around with Machoke and TLSH to see how they behave and work
- [x] Plan the Testing Framework including the database schema
- [x] Webscrape the biggest categorized malware samples publicly available
- [x] Normalize the data and run test the Testing Framework on them
- [x] Download all the Scicore apps in /scicore/soft/apps
- [x] Use the testing framework on the retrieved data
- [x] Find the compare score sweet spots for the fuzzy hashers based on the false positive rate
- [ ] Get to know statistical testing and learn their meaning to verify the results
- [ ] Generate statistical tests for the results and compare them with a ROC curve
- [ ] Build a heuristic for the "Obstkorb" framework based on the results before
- [ ] Nice to have: Use fuzzy hashers as features for machine learning and build a model