Bachelor Thesis (15 CP): A Study of Malware Detection Techniques for HPC Application Recognition
Start date: 18.10.2023
End date: 02.02.2024

# What I did
- Ran the testing framework with the addition of Machoke to all both datasets
  - Machoke is a great idea which I would like to research more on, but it is not practical for HPC binaries. The reason
is that HPC binaries are mostly big binaries which take to long to disassemble and reconstruct the control flow graph. 
To be more precise, after fuzzy hashing 5 binaries with Machoke, the fastest needed 16 seconds and the longest 122 seconds.
Therefore, I will not proceed on Machoke as a fuzzy hasher but find an alternative.
  - Another finding was that, as I initially mentioned, the binaries have a similar control flow graph and have a greater
similarity. Most likely a feature of the compiler tool chain which was used to generate the binary. MinGW for example does this too
and adds its own starter function for the binaries compiled with this chain. I assume this occurs with other tool chains too.
- Created the "EDI curve" which I will show you tomorrow at my mid-presentation.
  - Helps to get a better understanding about how to use the fuzzy hashers and at which thresholds.
- Tried ImpFuzzy, another fuzzy hasher which relies on the import and TLSH.
  - Did not work with HPC binaries. Requieres them to be "Portable Executables" like most malware for example.
# What I will do

- Run some tests with sampled data to verify the statistical findings
- Try other malware detection techniques like [YARA](https://virustotal.github.io/yara/)

# Questions

- None for now

# Progress Report

- [x] Create Github repo, roadmap and plan the work
- [x] Read related work on the fuzzy hashers and write down the knowledge
- [x] Play around with Machoke and TLSH to see how they behave and work
- [x] Plan the Testing Framework including the database schema
- [x] Webscrape the biggest categorized malware samples publicly available
- [x] Normalize the data and run test the Testing Framework on them
- [x] Download all the Scicore apps in /scicore/soft/apps
- [x] Use the testing framework on the retrieved data (Only Malware for now / Next week Scicore binaries too)
- [x] Find the compare score sweet spots for the fuzzy hashers based on the false positive rate
- [ ] Get to know statistical testing and learn their meaning to verify the results
- [x] Generate statistical tests for the results and compare them with a ROC curve
- [ ] Build a heuristic for the "Obstkorb" framework based on the results before
- [ ] Nice to have: Use fuzzy hashers as features for machine learning and build a model