Name: Edi Zeqiri
Bachelor Thesis (15 CP): A Study of Malware Detection Techniques for HPC Application Recognition
Start date: 18.10.2023
End date: 02.02.2024

# What I did

- Fixed the bugs in the webscraper which led to not downloading the correct files
  - Bug was that the website did not send a 400 error when accessing not available result but 200. My script was based on the assumption that only known malware would be downloaded. Therefore it saved the error message as the malware sample.
  - Another bug was with subfolder which were not consistent. Some were there and some where missing. Had to build some if cases for that.
- Found out about the problem with unzipping the malware
  - MacOS has some sort of antivirus...
  - Made an unzipper script for windows to unzip all the malware. Basic for loop in powershell
- Found /scicore/soft/apps directory where 300GB of binaries are stored and over 1000 apps.
  - Will skip OKTA which is a folder with over 136GB of data
  - Made a small script to download only specific folders and skip the really big ones for now.


# What I will do

- Normalize the data of scicore to be usable for the testing framework.
  - Problem there is that all the apps have different folder structures. Will have to clean up and maybe adjust the script
- Adjust the testing framework for scicore data if needed
- Use the testing framework on both datasets and see what how they compare. 

# Open Questions

- Do you know if I can collect the job scripts of people actively using scicore?
- Do you know what privacy policies Scicore has for the users and their applications which get submitted with slurm?
- Why can I see all the processes and command lines of all the users on the login node with htop?
- What do you think of the idea of fuzzy hashing not only the binary itself but also its sections? Using Machoke with TLSH on the functions for example or the whole .text section and .data on so on.

# Progress Report

- [x] Create Github repo, roadmap and plan the work
- [x] Read related work on the fuzzy hashers and write down the knowledge
- [x] Play around with Machoke and TLSH to see how they behave and work
- [x] Plan the Testing Framework including the database schema
- [x] Webscrape the biggest categorized malware samples publicly available
- [x] Normalize the data and run test the Testing Framework on them
- [ ] Download all the Scicore apps in /scicore/soft/apps and do the same as the malware samples
- [ ] Find the compare score sweet spots for the fuzzy hashers based on the false positive rate
- [ ] Get to know statistical testing and learn their meaning to verify the results
- [ ] Generate statistical tests for the results and compare them with a ROC curve
- [ ] Build a heuristic for the "Obstkorb" framework based on the results before
- [ ] Nice to have: Use fuzzy hashers as features for machine learning and build a model