Bachelor Thesis (15 CP): A Study of Malware Detection Techniques for HPC Application Recognition
Start date: 18.10.2023
End date: 02.02.2024

# What I did

- Refactored the code base and cleaned up some of my messes.
- Added the prediction function for which I can now run my test cases.
  - This function gets the path of a sample, runs the fuzzy hashers, compares to the database and predicts the family.
  - For the Scicore dataset, this function takes about 0.3 seconds to accomplish
- Read about Random Forest Trees and found out how I could implement them with Scikitlearn to find the optimal thresholds for the fuzzy hashers.

# What I will do

- Run Machoke on miniHPC as soon as I get access.
- Continue to refactor code base.
- Compare which fuzzy hasher recognized which family and find outliers in the results.

# Questions

- No questions currently

# Progress Report

- [x] Create Github repo, roadmap and plan the work
- [x] Read related work on the fuzzy hashers and write down the knowledge
- [x] Play around with Machoke and TLSH to see how they behave and work
- [x] Plan the Testing Framework including the database schema
- [x] Webscrape the biggest categorized malware samples publicly available
- [x] Normalize the data and run test the Testing Framework on them
- [x] Download all the Scicore apps in /scicore/soft/apps
- [x] Use the testing framework on the retrieved data (Only Malware for now / Next week Scicore binaries too)
- [x] Find the compare score sweet spots for the fuzzy hashers based on the false positive rate
- [x] Get to know statistical testing and learn their meaning to verify the results
- [x] Generate statistical tests for the results and compare them with a ROC curve
- [x] Add the Machoke results and compare them with the other fuzzy hashers
- [x] Add the String command results and compare them with the other fuzzy hashers
- [ ] Build a heuristic for the "Obstkorb" framework based on the results before
- [ ] Nice to have: Use fuzzy hashers as features for machine learning and build a model
- [ ] Nice to have: Use Random Forest Trees to optimal thresholds for the fuzzy hashers.
