Bachelor Thesis (15 CP): A Study of Malware Detection Techniques for HPC Application Recognition
Start date: 18.10.2023
End date: 02.02.2024

# What I did

- Created the database with the hashing information of all the fuzzy hashers.
- Created a share for my local network with all the malware families
- Noticed that my local Microsoft Defender was slowly deleting my samples without telling me.
  - Need therefore to unzip the data again, since the zips did not get deleted.
- Bug fixed the testing framework. Can now pump in arbitrary data and return a database with the right schema.
  - more than 120k samples were hashed and loaded in under 15 minutes
- Made a script to get the specific binary of each scicore application.
  - Example: when the folder is called "nodejs" and there are multiple binaries, then only the one which is called "node"
  - To do this I need to find the matching substring from each folder and its content
  - All these kind of scripts will be in the git repo.


# What I will do

- Load the Scicore binaries fuzzy hashes into the db.
- Test out different sampling techniques to get a subset of all the fuzzy hashes to compare the effectiveness of the fuzzy hashers.
  - Since I have loaded all the samples and hashed them I can now only work with the database and do not need the binaries for now. Therefore I will only sample db entries and move them from one schema to the other.

# Questions

- Can I send batch jobs to Scicore for which it should have access to my public accessible database?
  - Do I need to rebase the database to Scicore or can I tunnel the traffic through the login node since the computing cluster does not have internet access?
- My current Scicore account was created for the PET seminar. I am limited to 6h batch jobs. What other limits do I have which I should know about?

# Progress Report

- [x] Create Github repo, roadmap and plan the work
- [x] Read related work on the fuzzy hashers and write down the knowledge
- [x] Play around with Machoke and TLSH to see how they behave and work
- [x] Plan the Testing Framework including the database schema
- [x] Webscrape the biggest categorized malware samples publicly available
- [x] Normalize the data and run test the Testing Framework on them
- [x] Download all the Scicore apps in /scicore/soft/apps
- [x] Use the testing framework on the retrieved data (Only Malware for now / Next week Scicore binaries too)
- [ ] Find the compare score sweet spots for the fuzzy hashers based on the false positive rate
- [ ] Get to know statistical testing and learn their meaning to verify the results
- [ ] Generate statistical tests for the results and compare them with a ROC curve
- [ ] Build a heuristic for the "Obstkorb" framework based on the results before
- [ ] Nice to have: Use fuzzy hashers as features for machine learning and build a model