Bachelor Thesis (15 CP): A Study of Malware Detection Techniques for HPC Application Recognition
Start date: 18.10.2023
End date: 02.02.2024

# What I did

- Added the "strings" command as a fuzzy hasher
  - I used TLSH to hash the strings output and then used the TLSH compare function to get the score
  - It seems like a worse TLSH and takes much longer to compute
- Tried to add machoke
  - I learned how to parallelize the workload. Needed to create new processes and not threads to compute it more efficient.
  - A problem with machoke is that it does not recognize all the binaries and therefore cannot get all the hashes.
  - I cannot say how many binaries it does not recognize, but it seems like a lot. Need to run the whole test on the miniHPC.
  - The script is now done and can be run on the miniHPC as soon as I get access
- Learned about F1 score and how to use it to compare the results of the fuzzy hashers
  - It is a metric that combines precision and recall
  - I added it to the testing framework and will use it to compare the results
- Fixed a lot of bugs in the analysis of my data
  - Some plots look different now and I will need to rerun the tests

# What I will do

- Run Machoke on miniHPC as soon as I get access.
- Refactor code base. I coded really messy in the last few weeks. Need to clean up the code and make it more readable.
- Compare which fuzzy hasher recognized which family and find outliers in the results. 


# Questions

- Can you check if I have access to the miniHPC? I still cannot login. This is the SSH server: `cl-login.dmi.unibas.ch` and my username is `zeqiri0000`
- 

# Progress Report

- [x] Create Github repo, roadmap and plan the work
- [x] Read related work on the fuzzy hashers and write down the knowledge
- [x] Play around with Machoke and TLSH to see how they behave and work
- [x] Plan the Testing Framework including the database schema
- [x] Webscrape the biggest categorized malware samples publicly available
- [x] Normalize the data and run test the Testing Framework on them
- [x] Download all the Scicore apps in /scicore/soft/apps
- [x] Use the testing framework on the retrieved data (Only Malware for now / Next week Scicore binaries too)
- [x] Find the compare score sweet spots for the fuzzy hashers based on the false positive rate
- [x] Get to know statistical testing and learn their meaning to verify the results
- [x] Generate statistical tests for the results and compare them with a ROC curve
- [x] Add the Machoke results and compare them with the other fuzzy hashers
- [x] Add the String command results and compare them with the other fuzzy hashers
- [ ] Build a heuristic for the "Obstkorb" framework based on the results before
- [ ] Nice to have: Use fuzzy hashers as features for machine learning and build a model
- [ ] Nice to have: Use Random Forest Trees to optimal thresholds for the fuzzy hashers