Bachelor Thesis (15 CP): A Study of Malware Detection Techniques for HPC Application Recognition
Start date: 18.10.2023
End date: 02.02.2024

# What I did

- Refactored the code base again and implemented partialy the factory design pattern.
  - For this pattern I created new classes for the fuzzy hashers. Since python does not have strict interfaces like java I created classes with the same function which I then can call in a for loop.
  - The idea is that one can add fuzzy hashers easily by just adding a new class and adding it to the for loop. This increases modularity and makes the code more readable.
- Started running my test cases on the malware binaries and noticed that the results are inconsistent with my finding.
  - I realized that I had a bug in my code which caused the results to be inconsistent. The problem was in the way I parallelized the code. For my ROC curve I had to calculate every combination, meaning an any to any comparison of all the hashes. While doing this I had the brilliant idea to do chunks on it in parallel. The problem was, that I was only comparing subsets to subsets and not to the whole database.
  - This could be why my ROC curve was so different from the Scicore results.
  - I have fixed the code, but it takes way more time to run now (from a few seconds to possibly hours).
  - With the access to the miniHPC it should be no problem, but I would have to refactor my code since I can not use a database there.

# What I will do

- Run Machoke and the ROC curve calculations on the miniHPC as soon as I get access.
- Compare which fuzzy hasher recognized which family and find outliers in the results.
- Fix some more bugs and improve the code base.
- Look at my results more closely to and reevaluate them, just to be sure.

# Questions

- None for now

# Progress Report

- [x] Create Github repo, roadmap and plan the work
- [x] Read related work on the fuzzy hashers and write down the knowledge
- [x] Play around with Machoke and TLSH to see how they behave and work
- [x] Plan the Testing Framework including the database schema
- [x] Webscrape the biggest categorized malware samples publicly available
- [x] Normalize the data and run test the Testing Framework on them
- [x] Download all the Scicore apps in /scicore/soft/apps
- [x] Use the testing framework on the retrieved data (Only Malware for now / Next week Scicore binaries too)
- [x] Find the compare score sweet spots for the fuzzy hashers based on the false positive rate
- [x] Get to know statistical testing and learn their meaning to verify the results
- [x] Generate statistical tests for the results and compare them with a ROC curve
- [x] Add the Machoke results and compare them with the other fuzzy hashers
- [x] Add the String command results and compare them with the other fuzzy hashers
- [ ] Use the miniHPC to run the ROC curve calculations and Machoke
- [ ] Build a heuristic for the "Obstkorb" framework based on the results before
- [ ] Nice to have: Use fuzzy hashers as features for machine learning and build a model
- [ ] Nice to have: Use Random Forest Trees to optimal thresholds for the fuzzy hashers.
