Bachelor Thesis (15 CP): A Study of Malware Detection Techniques for HPC Application Recognition
Start date: 18.10.2023
End date: 02.02.2024

# What I did

- Applied the same testing framework to the Malware binaries as to the Scicore samples.
  - Some families have more than 60k samples while other have not more than 10. Histogram does not vizualise the data great.
  - Played around with normalization techniques, e.g. reducing the amount of samples per family to the median
  - Played around with the amount of noise added to the dataset
- Implemented Machoke fuzzy hasher
  - Machoke is a fuzzy hasher that uses the Levenshtein distance to compare strings.
  - It is a standalone application and not a library, so I had to implement it into the testing framework.
  - Added the Machoke hashes into the db.
- Started to write bullet points for the thesis in the overleaf document.

# What I will do

- Compare the results of the fuzzy hashers and prepare presentation for next week.
- Learn more about statistical testing and how to interpret the results.
- Decide if those 3 fuzzy hashers are enough or if I should add more.

# Questions

- What requirement do exist for the mid presentation?
  - Time frame, Topics which need to be covered, etc.
- By the Calendar invite we start at 13:30 right?

# Progress Report

- [x] Create Github repo, roadmap and plan the work
- [x] Read related work on the fuzzy hashers and write down the knowledge
- [x] Play around with Machoke and TLSH to see how they behave and work
- [x] Plan the Testing Framework including the database schema
- [x] Webscrape the biggest categorized malware samples publicly available
- [x] Normalize the data and run test the Testing Framework on them
- [x] Download all the Scicore apps in /scicore/soft/apps
- [x] Use the testing framework on the retrieved data (Only Malware for now / Next week Scicore binaries too)
- [x] Find the compare score sweet spots for the fuzzy hashers based on the false positive rate
- [ ] Get to know statistical testing and learn their meaning to verify the results
- [ ] Generate statistical tests for the results and compare them with a ROC curve
- [ ] Build a heuristic for the "Obstkorb" framework based on the results before
- [ ] Nice to have: Use fuzzy hashers as features for machine learning and build a model