Bachelor Thesis (15 CP): A Study of Malware Detection Techniques for HPC Application Recognition
Start date: 18.10.2023
End date: 02.02.2024

# What I did

- Got positive response from Scicore to get all the binaries.
  - Will use the transfer node as suggested and hash them locally on my machine
- Fixed some bugs in my scraping script, but not done yet.
  - Some downloaded files were corrupt or empty. Most likely because I forgot a subfolder in the path.
  - unzipping the files is also not working fully. Some files give a weird error from 7z that memory can not be allocated.
- Implemented the fuzzy hashers into the framework.
  - The following fuzzy hashers: sdHash, ssDeep, TLSH
  - Machoke needs to be implemented by hand since it is made as a main file and not to be imported
  - The implementation works by importing the libraries of each fuzzy hasher and the calling the functions.
    - To be specific: all the fuzzy hashers can be installed with pip and have generally the same syntax (for example: tlsh.hash()).
  - Built some small tests to look at the results with handpicked files. Nothing statistical yet.
```python
ic| tlsh.hash(Rat9002_1): 'T18A635B27E9548473CDC24DB044E80B7B8A77B6B007656CA7EF48D6551EB01F4BA3E22B'
ic| tlsh.hash(Rat9002_2): 'T1D9937B107682C275D47A29344C69CB731BBE7E529AF4D8873F8916BE1F302D0AE39316'
ic| tlsh.hash(AgentTesla): 'T184A4CFF562D86A2DE3B7C035A4952C14A7F0F412071BBB77056668E68E29D83CF112BF'
ic| tlsh.diff(Rat9002_1, Rat9002_2): 175
ic| tlsh.diff(Rat9002_1, AgentTesla): 556
ic| tlsh.diff(Rat9002_2, AgentTesla): 492
```
A score between 100 - 200 is a good indication for a match (TLSH specifically).
Here you can see that the RAT9002 is getting correctly recognized and AgentTesla is not similar.
- Studied TLSH further to understand more the concept of buckets and quartiles which they use for their hashing.
- Studied the link which Thomas gave me (https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/security-compliance-and-identity/new-blog-post-using-fuzzy-hashing-amp-deep-learning-to-counter/m-p/2592214)
  - To summarize it:
    - There are 2 possibilities. Either you start with the binary and try to build a deep fuzzy model (like the paper I showed last time) or you treat the fuzzy hash as a "natural word" and go on from there. Here the model has to be created from scratch for obvious reasons.
    - Microsoft intends to go with the second one and has pushed its model to ONNX (https://onnx.ai/) and fine tunes it on their own dataset of malware.
  - This sounds very promising and will think about as a "nice to have".

# What I will do

- Will download the binaries from Scicore and hash them locally.
  - Which exactly is an open question listed below.
  - The hashing will be done with my framework which can be found here: https://github.com/edizeqiri/obstkorb/blob/main/Testing_Framework/Tester.py
- Further debug the scraping script since some files still consist of 0 bytes.
- Find a better bugless way to unzip the files. 7za is working sometime but the GUI of 7zip is consistent.
  - Need to check where the error lies or just use the GUI and find out how to make it work for 130k zips.
- Fix the machoke hasher to work with the framework.
  - The machoke hasher has only a main function which is intended to be called from the cli. Therefore it only needs brief refactoring to make it work in my framework.

# Open Questions

- Do you know which binaries are used specifically which are worth hashing and building a detection for?
  - I found many applications on this website: https://scicore.unibas.ch/using-scicore/software/. Is this the right direction? Are people actively using these binaries or most of the time creating their own?
  - Do you know some datasets of HPC binaries which could be useful to fuzzy hash?
  - Do you know if I can collect the job scripts of people actively using scicore?
  - Do you know what privacy policies Scicore has for the users and their applications which get submitted with slurm?
- If I would like to proceed with the Machine Learning aspect mentioned above, can you assist me on this or do I need to request assistance from someone in the Machine Learning/ Data Science group?
- What do you think of the idea of fuzzy hashing not only the binary itself but also its 