Bachelor Thesis (15 CP): A Study of Malware Detection Techniques for HPC Application Recognition
Start date: 18.10.2023
End date: 02.02.2024

# What I did

- Ran the any to any comparison experiments on the miniHPC.
  - Goal was to get the ROC curve for the fuzzy hashers. Since 200k samples are too much for my PC with a O(n^2) algorithm, I used the miniHPC.
  - The graphs stayed pretty much the same. They got a bit worse but not much, which is weird.
- Ran Machoke on the miniHPC for the Scicore binaries.
  - The results were horrible. Only 1.5% of the binaries were recognized correctly. I think the reason is that the binaries are too big and Machoke is not made for that.

# What I will do


# Questions

- None for now

# Progress Report

- [x] Create Github repo, roadmap and plan the work
- [x] Read related work on the fuzzy hashers and write down the knowledge
- [x] Play around with Machoke and TLSH to see how they behave and work
- [x] Plan the Testing Framework including the database schema
- [x] Webscrape the biggest categorized malware samples publicly available
- [x] Normalize the data and run test the Testing Framework on them
- [x] Download all the Scicore apps in /scicore/soft/apps
- [x] Use the testing framework on the retrieved data (Only Malware for now / Next week Scicore binaries too)
- [x] Find the compare score sweet spots for the fuzzy hashers based on the false positive rate
- [x] Get to know statistical testing and learn their meaning to verify the results
- [x] Generate statistical tests for the results and compare them with a ROC curve
- [x] Add the Machoke results and compare them with the other fuzzy hashers
- [x] Add the String command results and compare them with the other fuzzy hashers
- [x] Use the miniHPC to run the ROC curve calculations and Machoke
- [ ] Build a heuristic for the "Obstkorb" framework based on the results before
- [ ] Nice to have: Use fuzzy hashers as features for machine learning and build a model
- [ ] Nice to have: Use Random Forest Trees to optimal thresholds for the fuzzy hashers.
